Add EIP-1271 tutorial to developer docs (#9169)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/tutorials/eip-1271-smart-contract-signatures/index.md

---
title: "EIP-1271: Signing and Verifying Smart Contract Signatures"
description: An overview of smart contract signature generation and verification with EIP-1271. We also walk through Gnosis Safe's EIP-1271 implementation to provide a concrete example for smart contract developers to build on.
author: nathanhleung
lang: en
tags: ["eip-1271", "smart contracts", "verifying", "signing"]
skill: intermediate
published: 2023-01-12
---

The [EIP-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard allows smart contracts to verify signatures.

> In this tutorial, we give an overview of digital signatures, EIP-1271's background, and [Gnosis Safe](https://gnosis-safe.io/)'s specific implementation of EIP-1271. All together, this can serve as a starting point for implementing EIP-1271 in your own contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we give an overview of digital signatures, EIP-1271's background, and [Safe](https://app.safe.global/)'s specific implementation of EIP-1271. All together, this can serve as a starting point for implementing EIP-1271 in your own contracts.
```

I believe they rebranded now from Gnosis Safe to Safe. Just updating name + url.

Author: Ah yes I think you're right — I can go thru and make this change throughout

Author: Might still be useful to add a parenthetical (previously Gnosis Safe) like they do on their website

<img width="662" alt="Screenshot 2023-03-01 at 13 34 56" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10874225/222270044-9a34ac6f-255d-4cd9-8e15-fd3bf55a65f7.png">

## What is a signature?

> In this context, a signature (more precisely, a “digital signature”) is a message + some sort of proof that the message came from a specific person/sender/address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this context, a signature (more precisely, a “digital signature”) is a message plus some sort of proof that the message came from a specific person/sender/address.
```

Nitpick, but I think we should just use the word here

> For instance, a digital signature might look like this (usually combined into some sort of data structure):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, a digital signature might look like this:
```
I think this cleans this up a bit

1. Message: “I want to log in to this website with my Ethereum wallet.”
2. Signer: My address is `0x000…`
3. Proof: Here is some proof that I, `0x000…`, actually created this entire message (this is usually something cryptographic).

It’s important to note that a digital signature includes both a “message” and a “signature”.

Why? For instance, if you gave me a contract to sign, and then I cut off the signature page and gave you back only my signatures without the rest of the contract, the contract would not be valid.

In the same way, a digital signature doesn’t mean anything without an associated message!

## Why does EIP-1271 exist?

In order to create a digital signature for use on Ethereum-based blockchains, you generally need a secret private key which no one else knows. This is what makes your signature, yours (no one else can create the same signature without knowledge of the secret key).

> Your Ethereum wallet (i.e. your externally-owned account/EOA) has a private key associated with it, and this is the private key that’s typically used when a website or dapp asks you for a signature (e.g. for “Log in with Ethereum”).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Ethereum account (i.e. your externally-owned account/EOA) has a private key associated with it, and this is the private key that’s typically used when a website or dapp asks you for a signature (e.g. for “Log in with Ethereum”).
```

> An app can [verify a signature](https://docs.alchemy.com/docs/how-to-verify-a-message-signature-on-ethereum) you create using a third-party library like ethers.js [without knowing your private key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public-key_cryptography) (because of math) and be confident (again, [because of math](https://crypto.stackexchange.com/questions/48816/discrete-logarithm-problem-of-ecc)) that _you_ were the one that created the signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An app can [verify a signature](https://docs.alchemy.com/docs/how-to-verify-a-message-signature-on-ethereum) you create using a third-party library like ethers.js [without knowing your private key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public-key_cryptography) and be confident that _you_ were the one that created the signature.
```

Just a bit of cleanup. Open to pushback here.

> > In fact, because EOA digital signatures are just based on cryptography, they can be generated and verified **off-chain**! This is how gasless DAO voting works — instead of submitting votes on-chain, digital signatures can be created and verified off-chain using cryptographic libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In fact, because EOA digital signatures use public-key cryptography, they can be generated and verified **off-chain**! This is how gasless DAO voting works — instead of submitting votes on-chain, digital signatures can be created and verified off-chain using cryptographic libraries.
```

> While your personal/EOA wallet has a private key, smart contracts do not have any sort of private or secret key (so "Log in with Ethereum", etc. cannot natively work with smart contracts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While EOA accounts have a private key, smart contract accounts do not have any sort of private or secret key (so "Log in with Ethereum", etc. cannot natively work with smart contract accounts).
```

If `isValidSignature` returns a valid result, that’s pretty much the contract saying “yes, I approve this signature + message!”

### Interface

Here’s the exact interface in the EIP-1271 spec (we’ll talk about the `_hash` parameter below, but for now, think of it as the message that is being verified):

```jsx
pragma solidity ^0.5.0;

contract ERC1271 {

  // bytes4(keccak256("isValidSignature(bytes32,bytes)")
  bytes4 constant internal MAGICVALUE = 0x1626ba7e;

  /**
   * @dev Should return whether the signature provided is valid for the provided hash
   * @param _hash      Hash of the data to be signed
   * @param _signature Signature byte array associated with _hash
   *
   * MUST return the bytes4 magic value 0x1626ba7e when function passes.
   * MUST NOT modify state (using STATICCALL for solc < 0.5, view modifier for solc > 0.5)
   * MUST allow external calls
   */
  function isValidSignature(
    bytes32 _hash,
    bytes memory _signature)
    public
    view
    returns (bytes4 magicValue);
}
```

## Example EIP-1271 Implementation: Gnosis Safe

Contracts can implement `isValidSignature` in many ways — the spec only doesn’t say much about the exact implementation.

> One notable contract which implements EIP-1271 is Gnosis Safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One notable contract which implements EIP-1271 is Safe.
```

> In Gnosis Safe’s code, `isValidSignature` [is implemented](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts/blob/main/contracts/handler/CompatibilityFallbackHandler.sol) so that signatures can be created and verified in [two ways](https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/122635/signing-messages-as-a-gnosis-safe-eip1271-support):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Safe’s code, `isValidSignature` [is implemented](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts/blob/main/contracts/handler/CompatibilityFallbackHandler.sol) so that signatures can be created and verified in [two ways](https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/122635/signing-messages-as-a-gnosis-safe-eip1271-support):
```

1. On-chain messages
   1. Creation: a safe owner creates a new safe transaction to “sign” a message, passing the message as data into the transaction. Once enough owners sign the transaction to reach the multisig threshold, the transaction is broadcast and run. In the transaction, there is a safe function called which adds the message to a list of “approved” messages.

>    2. Verification: call `isValidSignature` on the Gnosis Safe contract, and pass in the message to verify as the message parameter and [an empty value for the signature parameter](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts/blob/main/contracts/handler/CompatibilityFallbackHandler.sol#L32) (i.e. `0x`). Gnosis will see that the signature parameter is empty and instead of cryptographically verifying the signature, it will know to just go ahead and check whether the message is on the list of “approved” messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Verification: call `isValidSignature` on the Safe contract, and pass in the message to verify as the message parameter and [an empty value for the signature parameter](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts/blob/main/contracts/handler/CompatibilityFallbackHandler.sol#L32) (i.e. `0x`). Safe will see that the signature parameter is empty and instead of cryptographically verifying the signature, it will know to just go ahead and check whether the message is on the list of “approved” messages.
```

2. Off-chain messages:
   1. Creation: a safe owner creates a message off-chain, then gets other safe owners to sign the message each individually until there are enough signatures to overcome the multisig approval threshold.

>    2. Verification: call `isValidSignature`. In the message parameter, pass in the message to be verified. In the signature parameter, pass in each safe owner’s individual signatures all concatenated together, back-to-back. Gnosis will check that there are enough signatures to meet the threshold **and** that each signature is valid. If so, it will return a value indicating successful signature verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Verification: call `isValidSignature`. In the message parameter, pass in the message to be verified. In the signature parameter, pass in each safe owner’s individual signatures all concatenated together, back-to-back. Safe will check that there are enough signatures to meet the threshold **and** that each signature is valid. If so, it will return a value indicating successful signature verification.
```

## What exactly is the `_hash` parameter? Why not pass the whole message?

You might have noticed that the `isValidSignature` function in the [EIP-1271 interface](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) doesn’t take in the message itself, but instead a `_hash` parameter. What this means is that instead of passing the full arbitrary-length message to `isValidSignature`, we instead pass a 32-byte hash of the message (generally keccak256).

Each byte of calldata — i.e. function parameter data passed to a smart contract function — [costs 16 gas (4 gas if zero byte)](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2028), so this can save a lot of gas if a message is long.

### Previous EIP-1271 Specifications

There are EIP-1271 specifications in the wild that have an `isValidSignature` function with a first parameter of type `bytes` (arbitrary-length, instead of a fixed-length `bytes32`) and parameter name `message`. This is an [older version](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-contracts/issues/391#issuecomment-1075427206) of the EIP-1271 standard.

## How should EIP-1271 be implemented in my own contracts?

> The spec is very open-ended here. The Gnosis Safe implementation has some good ideas:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spec is very open-ended here. The Safe implementation has some good ideas:
```
